17. Accounts opened using Aadhaar OTP based e-KYC, in non-face-to-face mode, are subject to the following conditions:

i. There must be a specific consent from the customer for authentication through OTP.

ii. As a risk-mitigating measure for such accounts, REs shall ensure that transaction alerts, OTP, etc., are sent only to the mobile number of the customer registered with Aadhaar. REs shall have a board approved policy delineating a robust process of due diligence for dealing with requests for change of mobile number in such accounts.

iii. The aggregate balance of all the deposit accounts of the customer shall not exceed rupees two lakh. In case the balance exceeds the threshold, the account shall cease to be operational, till Customer Due Diligence (CDD) as mentioned at (vi) below is complete.

iv. The aggregate of all credits in a financial year, in all the deposit accounts taken together, shall not exceed rupees two lakh.

v. As regards borrowal accounts, only term loans shall be sanctioned. The aggregate amount of term loans sanctioned shall not exceed rupees sixty thousand in a year.

vi. Accounts, both deposit and borrowal, opened using OTP based e-KYC shall not be allowed for more than one year unless identification as per paragraph 16 or as per paragraph 18 (V-CIP) is carried out. If Aadhaar details are used under paragraph 18, the process shall be followed in its entirety including fresh Aadhaar OTP authentication.

vii. If the CDD procedure as mentioned above is not completed within a year, in respect of deposit accounts, the same shall be closed immediately. In respect of borrowal accounts no further debits shall be allowed.

viii. A declaration shall be obtained from the customer to the effect that no other account has been opened nor will be opened using OTP based KYC in non-face-to-face mode with any other RE.

ix. REs shall have strict monitoring procedures including systems to generate alerts in case of any non-compliance/violation, to ensure compliance with the above mentioned conditions.
